adding document for cloudgate (#437)
TheThingsIndustries/lorawan-stack-docs: doc/content/gateways/cloudgate/_index.md

﻿
---
title: "CloudGate"
description: ""
weight: 1
---

Option Wireless Technology’s CloudGate is the carrier approved IoT solution platform that delivers device connectivity, security and processing power for global IoT applications.

> The LoRa Basics Station protocol simplifies management of large scale LoRaWAN networks. LoRa Basics Station is the preferred way of connecting Gateways to The Things Stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LoRa Basics Station protocol simplifies management of large scale LoRaWAN networks. LoRa Basics Station is the preferred way of connecting Gateways to {{% tts %}}.
```

  IP-address in the “**Connections**”→“**Main Ethernet Interface**”tab.
  
{{< figure src="Network-settings.png" alt="Network settings" >}}

- As soon as the CloudGate is connected to the internet, it will perform a Check-in on CloudGate Universe and will start downloading and installing the latest software, as configured in the previous step. You will see the LED’s move in a “Knight Rider”- like sequence during download and installation.

- After the installation is complete, the CloudGate will reboot. This takes approx. 2 minutes to complete.

- Go to **Home -> System Information** and make sure that **Basics Station** application is installed in the CloudGate.

 {{< note >}}The Basics Station application only works for CG2132 and CG8102 LoRa cards.{{</ note >}}

# **Connecting CloudGate to The Things Stack**
## **Registration**
Create a gateway by following the instructions for [Adding Gateways](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/gateways/adding-gateways/).

{{< note >}}The Gateway EUI is the MAC address of the CloudGate with FFFE in the middle. e.g. 123456FFFE7890AB.{{</ note >}}                     
## **Create an API key**

> LNS establishes a data connection between a LoRa Basics™ Station and The Things Stack. To connect a gateway using the LNS protocol, it requires an API Key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LNS establishes a data connection between a LoRa Basics™ Station and {{% tts %}}. To connect a gateway using the LNS protocol, it requires an API Key.
```

Install Basics™ Station application in your CloudGate and go to **plugins -> Basic Station**.

{{< figure src="Open-BasicsStation.png" alt="Open Basics Station" >}}

Configure the authentication as **LNS**, and select the region.

{{< figure src="BasicsStation-Config-Authentication.png" alt="Choose Authentication Field" >}}

On CloudGate gateways, only CUPS or LNS can be configured. Configuring CUPS will automatically configure LNS, so to use The Things Stack, just follow the instructions for [Connect to CUPS](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/gateways/lora-basics-station/cups/).

Here the server address is the network endpoint of The Things Stack LNS. It is a combination of the **protocol** (wss), the **server address**, and the **port**.

Enter the following in your gateway as the LNS Server Address: wss://<server-address>:8887

The **server CA certificates** can be found from [Root Certificates](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/reference/root-certificates/) ,

You can download the minimal certificate list then copy and paste the content into **Server CA cert** filed.

{{< figure src="BasicsStation-Config-ServerCACert.png" alt="Add Server CA Certificate" >}}

> The Gateway Cert field must be left empty.
> 
> In the Gateway Key field, enter the LNS API key you created above. The format should be **“Authorization: Bearer $LNS\_KEY”** and Click on **Save Changes.**
> 
> {{< figure src="BasicsStation-Config-GatewayKey.png" alt=" Enter Gateway Key" >}}
> 
> If your configuration was successful, your gateway will connect to The Things Stack after a couple of seconds.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Gateway Cert** field must be left empty.

In the **Gateway Key** field, enter the LNS API key you created in the previous steps. The format should be `Authorization: Bearer $LNS\_KEY`. Click on **Save Changes** to finish.

{{< figure src="BasicsStation-Config-GatewayKey.png" alt=" Enter Gateway Key" >}}

If your configuration was successful, your gateway will connect to {{% tts %}} after a couple of seconds.

```
